hi I'm Larry troca and I'm here today to
show you how to set up a pair of
drawings on your horse drawings are used
for helping to suppli horse up and it
depends on the horse you know it depends
on the horse you know when you're going
to use them or whether you would choose
to use a German martingale but the draw
range the the main difference between
the drawings in the German martingale is
you can position either the position of
the draw reins either higher or lower
and that's not possible with the German
martingale I'm going to show you the
different positions on this horse now
this is a young horse and he's kind of
squirming around here probably not the
probably not the ideal horse to use for
this demonstration but we got him
saddled so you know we're going to use
him but I would use the draw reins on a
horse that I needed to get supple dup
that I needed to teach him to give to my
hands that I needed to work on their
head position either raise their Pole or
lower their poll the draw reins are
really good for that and also a horse
that that's stiff laterally they're
really good at getting lateral flexion
also it's pretty good tool so I've got a
snaffle bit in this horse's mouth and
that's a little too much snaffle for
this or assess the thin twisted wire and
he's not ready for that but but we're
just demonstrating here we've got a bit
hobble on the snaffle bit and this is a
loose ring snaffle bit browband
headstall and these these draw reins are
what's called split reins they're just
like you know your normal reins the way
the way they are some drawings are
closed
like roping reins I don't really care
much for those but these work great and
you can see we've got the end of the
snaffle the end of the snap snapped into
the the girth ring right here and that
position allows us to get a nice drop of
the nose
and teach him to give to the bit and
give to our hands and you can see you
can see the level of that now I like
this horse's head position right there
looks pretty good to me
but if we had a real horse with a real
high pole carriage you want to carry his
head real high I would change the
position of the draw reins
unsnap it from there and I would take it
down between his front legs and snap it
into the girth ring between his legs and
that would give me a lower pull and
would lower his Pole okay
so it works really good for that I'm
getting parallel to the camera come on
now a horse that if you have a horse
that carries his head too low which
there are some horses that do that I
would change the position to up here
this is the breast collar DS or you
could even go up to the saddle horn but
right to the breast collar DS works
great and that'll give you a little bit
higher pull where it's going to keep his
pole a little elevated but the nose is
going to get come in give your hands
going to really teach him to flex at the
pole so that works really good now it's
important that you set these draw reins
up and run put them through the snaffle
rings the right way the way it goes is
from the inside out let me change the
snap here back to this position here and
the girth ring really is the standard
position that's where most people use
them but when you when you're going to
put them when you're going to put them
on your horse what you're going to do is
is if you're holding the rain you get
the snap you're going to go in this this
case from the outside in
so the snap goes through the ring snap
it into place
and I've got I've got the little knob on
the snap pointing out so it's not
digging into the horse and irritating
him but now when I used the rein rigged
up that way the rains come in from the
inside out so that when I'm going to
bend him laterally it slides smoothly
through that ring it doesn't bind up if
you have it the opposite way then it's
going to drag through that ring and
hang-ups not going to work as good okay
now now we have these drawings on my
website at horse training videos calm
and they come with a little pulley that
snaps on if you don't want to take the
rain through the the snaffle ring it
comes with a little little pulley with a
snap on it that you can run the rain
through and then when you want to take
the reins off you just unsnap the pulley
the some people love using the little
pulley that they come with I prefer to
do it this way myself but it's just
personal preference so anyway that
pretty much explains how to use the draw
reins now some people will use just a
regular Snapple and leave the regular
rains on the Snapple and then just run
the draw reins through through that ring
above the regular reins and that way you
can use your your regular straight reins
when you're just normally riding the
horse and if he starts getting heavy or
getting stiff you can pick up your draw
reins and use them and you're basically
riding with with two sets of reins
that'll work good but it's kind of a
handful takes a little while to get used
to that but so anyway that pretty much
wraps up the explanation of how to use
the draw reins you know hope to help you
you